<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [Overview](#overview)
- [What I am looking for](#what-i-am-looking-for)
- [Experiences](#experiences)
  - [03/2015 - Now: Lead Developer/Software Architect (Kuzzle)](#032015---now-lead-developersoftware-architect-kuzzle)
  - [10/2010 - 03/2015: IT Manager (Natixis)](#102010---032015-it-manager-natixis)
  - [02/2008 - 10/2010: Developer/Software Architect (Natixis)](#022008---102010-developersoftware-architect-natixis)
  - [03/2006 - 02/2008: IT Consultant (BTD Consulting => Natixis)](#032006---022008-it-consultant-btd-consulting--natixis)
  - [05/2003 - 03/2006: IT Consultant (BTD Consulting => Natexis Banques Populaires)](#052003---032006-it-consultant-btd-consulting--natexis-banques-populaires)
  - [03/2003 - 05/2003: IT Consultant (BTD Consulting => Bouygues Construction)](#032003---052003-it-consultant-btd-consulting--bouygues-construction)
  - [01/2001 - 01/2003: IT Consultant (BTD Consulting => BNP Paribas)](#012001---012003-it-consultant-btd-consulting--bnp-paribas)
  - [03/2000 - 09/2000: On-the-job training (INRA)](#032000---092000-on-the-job-training-inra)
- [Other centers of interest](#other-centers-of-interest)
- [How to contact me](#how-to-contact-me)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# Overview

I'm currently a lead developer at [Kuzzle](http://kuzzle.io), and I have over 17 years of professional experience.  
I can work either in Montpellier (France), its surrounding area, or remotely.

Here is how I view my profiencency in languages I know:

* I can build new projects from scratch: C, Node.js
* I'm able to work on existing projects: Java, C++, Python, Go
* I've worked with those: C#, PERL, PHP

My coding style focuses on writing easy-to-understand, maintainable code, and I like to follow a few principles to achieve that goal, most prominently: [KISS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KISS_principle), [DRY](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don't_repeat_yourself), and [The Boyscout Rule](http://programmer.97things.oreilly.com/wiki/index.php/The_Boy_Scout_Rule)  
You may browse the [github repositories](http://github.com/scottinet) I worked on to check if my coding style and skills match your expectations.

Other skills that I have:

* I'm a fast learner, able to quickly grasp new paradigms, languages and practices
* I've architectured applications, data models and codes (object-oriented or not), and I love doing that
* I naturally offer my help to other team members, or train them when they ask me to
* I helped design and optimize applications storage in SQL databases, as well as a large datawarehouse
* I managed a team for about 5 years

# What I am looking for

Above all, what I need are challenges.  
When I bang my head on my desk on a hard to track, subtle bug occuring randomly, I feel like entering the ring. And when I swear out loud about a performance issue that needs a new algorithm or a new approach to be addressed, I feel like a kid in a candy store.  

Give me routine and I get bored, I lose my motivation... and I leave.

I would like to work for a company with a modern/Agile mindset, where people actually spend their time collaborating, working, improving, teaching and innovating.  
If that's not possible, then I will still gladly hear what you've got to offer in terms of salary, holidays and other advantages. 

# Experiences

## 03/2015 - Now: Lead Developer/Software Architect (Kuzzle)

Now located in Montpellier, I am one of the lead developer and architect behind [Kuzzle](http://kuzzle.io), an open-source, installable and all-purpose back-end:

* I co-designed and I was the only developer of [Koncorde](https://www.npmjs.com/package/koncorde), Kuzzle's real-time data percolation engine
* I'm one of the main developers of Kuzzle's core. A few features that I designed and developed: network protocol plugin system, overload-protection mechanism, HTTP router, ...
* I improved Kuzzle's memory consumption and overall performances using profiling analysis
* I helped design and develop Kuzzle's SDKs in Javascript (browser + Node.js), Android, Go and C
* I participated to the product's roadmap, and pushed a few strategic, business-oriented proposals

_Environment:_ Node.js (self-taught), C, C++, Java, Go (self-taught)

## 10/2010 - 03/2015: IT Manager (Natixis)

As a manager, I had to help my new team making a BI application work. That application was at first used by a few traders to navigate through simulation data generated by a grid of computers:

* my team and I stabilized, overhauled and homogenized the application and its database storage, allowing it to absorb approx. 20 millions lines of data per day
* the application then grew to absorb new data, ten times that initial volume (approx. 200 millions lines per day), and a lot more users were using it daily, without knowing anything about the enormous quantity of data they were manipulating daily
* I promoted collaboration, sense of initiative and the right to make mistakes. My belief is that complex problems often require daring, out-of-the-box solutions, and those can only be obtained if failure is an accepted outcome
* I made sure my team communicated constantly and honestly with clients and business analysts. This allowed establishing trust in our relationship, a better understanding of each others constraints, and mutual efforts to improve how we worked

Since mid-2013, I also had to manage a critical front-office application, whose reports were followed by the bank top management:

* I hired a new team to maintain that application, and I had to make sure that the transfer was as seamless as possible for our users
* Over time, I also changed the way we worked with our users and business analysts to make them actors of our development processes, with the same benefits I already obtained with my other team

_Environment:_ Sybase IQ, SQL Server (+ BI tools), C#

## 02/2008 - 10/2010: Developer/Software Architect (Natixis)

Hired by Natixis, I was assigned to a front-office project team, whose role was to implement and deploy significant projects for traders.  
My first assignment was to deploy a continuous integration environment (see the previous experience below), and that task involved cleaning the code base, creating tools over the already existing code managing products, and training the support and project teams.

Along with other business projects (mainly involving financial stress tests), I also contributed to the idea, design and coding of a generic production monitoring system, primarily aimed at reducing grid computing maintenance costs. Its uses has since been generalized to other production activities.

_Environment:_ C++, PERL, Sybase ASE, Misys Summit, Java (self-taught)

## 03/2006 - 02/2008: IT Consultant (BTD Consulting => Natixis)

After the merging of Ixis CDC and Natexis Banques Populaires, my IT consulting contract has been prolongated for another three years.  
I worked full time for a front-office support team, doing trader support, software stabilization and improvements.  
After studying the integration and deployment workflow, I decided that it could be largely improved, and I proposed a migration plan, complete with tools deployment, server infrastructure, team training and benefits analysis.  
My plan was approved, and I was able to make it happen after I was hired by Natixis.

_Environment:_ C++, PERL, Sybase ASE, Misys Summit

## 05/2003 - 03/2006: IT Consultant (BTD Consulting => Natexis Banques Populaires)

As an IT consultant, I had to stabilize and improve a middle-office application used to consolidate data between trader desks and accounts department.  
I decided to industrialize the more costly processes and to overhaul the application's data model, drastically reducing the time needed to maintain and to improve the software.

My actions made the software simple enough that I was able to train a junior employee to take my place, allowing myself to work part time with another team, doing software support for a front-office software used by traders.

_Environment:_ C, PERL, Sybase ASE, Misys Summit

## 03/2003 - 05/2003: IT Consultant (BTD Consulting => Bouygues Construction)

Short IT consulting contract, where I helped local teams with a payroll software migration.

_Environment:_ PERL (self-taught)


## 01/2001 - 01/2003: IT Consultant (BTD Consulting => BNP Paribas)

As an IT consultant, I had to maintain a back-office software, used to track the activity of traders for the milanese branch of the bank.  
I had to fix, stabilize and improve the software, as well as its SQL data model.
I also improved the development workflow by adding a source control software and static code analysis.

_Environment:_ C, Sybase ASE

## 03/2000 - 09/2000: On-the-job training (INRA)

Working for the French National Institute for Agricultural Research, I helped maintain and upgrade a financial report generator.

_Environment:_ C++


# Other centers of interest

On my free time, I'm playing [code golf](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_golf) in C, Javascript or 05AB1E.  
My code golf profile on stackexchange: https://codegolf.stackexchange.com/users/73296/scottinet


# How to contact me

If you wish to contact me, you can send me an e-mail at the following address: seb.cottinet@gmail.com
